Added new troubleshooting guides for increasing the Ingress log level and Host header with port (#2125)
kyma-project/istio: docs/user/troubleshooting/03-05-increase-verbosity-of-ingress-logs.md

# Increase Verbosity of the Istio Ingress Logs

In order to diagnose connection issues you may need more verbose logs in the Istio Ingress container.

> Such logs may help to understand whether the request comes to the Ingress and what happens to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Such logs may help determine whether the request comes to the Ingress and what happens to it.
```

## Enable Access Logs

> An Access Log is a main observability feature. It contains a detailed log entry for every request that is processed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An access log is the main observability feature. It contains a detailed log entry for every request that is processed.
```

> Istio allows to enable access logging by the Telemetry Custom Resource. For the Istio Ingress Gateway it can be easily done in the following way:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Istio, you can enable access logging by the Telemetry custom resource (CR). To enable access logging for the Istio Ingress Gateway, run:
```

```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: telemetry.istio.io/v1
kind: Telemetry
metadata:
  name: ingress-access-logs-enabler
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      istio: ingressgateway
  accessLogging:
    - providers:
      - name: envoy
```

> Once it is applied, the Ingress log contain access logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result, the Ingress log contains access logs.
```

> Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example:

When you run the following command:

```

```bash
curl -k --tls-max 1.0 https://httpbin.local.kyma.dev/headers
```

> The Ingress log contains the following entry for the above request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Ingress log contains the following entry:

```

```
{"authority":"httpbin.local.kyma.dev","bytes_received":0,"bytes_sent":442,"connection_termination_details":null,"downstream_local_address":"10.42.0.9:8443","downstream_remote_address":"10.42.0.1:22564","duration":15,"method":"GET","path":"/headers","protocol":"HTTP/2","request_id":"b947e4b6-2965-4cca-af90-51e3a1f4673f","requested_server_name":"httpbin.local.kyma.dev","response_code":200,"response_code_details":"via_upstream","response_flags":"-","route_name":null,"start_time":"2026-06-30T09:09:58.374Z","upstream_cluster":"outbound|8000||httpbin.test.svc.cluster.local","upstream_host":"10.42.0.13:80","upstream_local_address":"10.42.0.9:35226","upstream_service_time":"13","upstream_transport_failure_reason":null,"user_agent":"curl/8.7.1","x_forwarded_for":"10.42.0.1"}
```

## Enable Trace Logs

> If the Access Log is not enough then you may increase the log level of the Istio Ingress. It can be done at runtime, so it doesn't require redeployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the access log is insufficient, increase the log level of the Istio Ingress. You can do it at runtime, so it doesn't require redeployment.
```

```bash
for ingress_pod in $(kubectl get pod -n istio-system --no-headers --output=name -l app=istio-ingressgateway); do
    istioctl proxy-config log -n istio-system "${ingress_pod}" --level trace
done
```

> The effect is immediate and the Ingress log show a lot of information for every single connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The effect is immediate, and the Ingress log provides detailed information for every connection.
```

> It is very useful in diagnosing problems in lower layers, like the (m)TLS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is very useful for diagnosing problems in lower layers, such as (m)TLS.
```

> Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example:
The following request fails because the TLS version is too old:

```

```bash
curl -k --tls-max 1.0 https://httpbin.local.kyma.dev/headers
```

> The above request fails, because the TLS version is too old. Such request is not visible in the access log, because the connection is not established, and the HTTP protocol is not involved yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Such a request is not visible in the access log because the connection has not been established, and the HTTP protocol has not been involved yet.
```

> The Ingress log show the 'UNSUPPORTED_PROTOCOL' error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Ingress log shows the 'UNSUPPORTED_PROTOCOL' error.
```

2026-07-01T06:17:13.289928Z	trace	envoy config external/envoy/source/common/tls/server_context_impl.cc:519	TLS context selection result: 1, after selectTlsContext, selection result status: 0	thread=20
2026-07-01T06:17:13.290005Z	trace	envoy connection external/envoy/source/common/tls/ssl_handshaker.cc:152	[Tags: "ConnectionId":"388"] ssl error occurred while read: SSL	thread=20
2026-07-01T06:17:13.290020Z	debug	envoy connection external/envoy/source/common/tls/ssl_socket.cc:269	[Tags: "ConnectionId":"388"] remote address:10.42.0.1:6943,TLS_error:|268435696:SSL routines:OPENSSL_internal:UNSUPPORTED_PROTOCOL:TLS_error_end	thread=20
2026-07-01T06:17:13.290025Z	debug	envoy connection external/envoy/source/common/network/connection_impl.cc:313	[Tags: "ConnectionId":"388"] closing socket: 0	thread=20
2026-07-01T06:17:13.290068Z	trace	envoy connection external/envoy/source/common/network/connection_impl.cc:517	[Tags: "ConnectionId":"388"] raising connection event 0	thread=20```
```

Note that such verbose logs may influence the Ingress performance, so you should switch it back to a lower level after diagnosis is completed.

> By default, the Ingress uses a 'warn' level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ### Note:
> Such verbose logs may influence the Ingress performance, so switch it back to a lower level after diagnosis is completed.
> By default, the Ingress uses a 'warn' level.
```

Reviewer: Please consider moving this note up in the doc for better visibility.
